have you ever wondered how the mosquito
kills more people than any other animal
on earth
hi can this me this is really
nerve-racking so that's gonna be itchy
some of you might remember that I've
already had my blood sucked by leeches
and clotted by snake venom while today
I'm going to be putting my arm inside
here this is basically our mosquito box
and we've got some hungry mosquitoes in
there so these guys are ATS mosquitoes
that transmit Zika and dengue but these
ones are disease free you'll be glad to
know but I think I'm particularly
delicious to a musky no is it possible
that they could prefer someone to jump
yes absolutely yeah and what you do find
is that some people are super attractive
that attract pretty much all of them
including myself and you and some people
attract hardly any at all and what we
also know now is that it's based on body
order they're like super sensors they've
got antenna and the antenna can detect
not just smells coming off your skin but
also heat and moisture and believe me
they'll be in there straight away while
talking of that I think it's about time
that I put my arm inside the mosquito
box oh my goodness this is the weirdest
most bizarre fan who starts a few nails
or anything then just let's go
[Music]
one two three four I told you I was
tasty oh yeah little skinny fingers so
I've got five mosquitoes hanging out of
my arm how long will they drink for so
probably about two or three minutes so
they've got some more coming down there
as well and if you look closely what
you'll see is their abdomen starting to
swell up her sleeve as they bring the
blood on board course you can actually
see them growing there yeah yeah how
much do they drink about three to three
times their own body weight well when
they're fool I mean they're really full
they they take on as much blood as we
can and then when they do they do a
little poo on your skin
I'm afraid and what it's doing is it's
squeezing out the water from the blood
to take in more blood and then it will
rest for a couple of days where it
starts to mature eggs which is why it's
only the females that bite the
mosquitoes are slowly filling up with my
blood which is a bizarre thing to say
but can you like talk me through what
are they doing right now what is the
process of being bitten by a mosquito so
the ones that have just landed will be
probing they'll be finding the suitable
site their proboscis will be going
deeper inside and then finding the blood
vessels to feed from and the ones that
are now feeding are just they're just
lapping it up and I can see some that
are very very fat on the side of your
arm there 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 is that
good
is that it well you're you're pretty
attractive to mosquitoes
[Music]
when we think of mosquitoes and diseases
we immediately associate them with
malaria but they do also carry Zika what
is the Zika virus
so Zika is a virus and it's transmitted
by mosquitoes it's also transmitted
sexually and which is quite unusual and
it's actually taking the world by
surprise we've known about Zika since
around 1947 when it was discovered in a
monkey in Uganda but it wasn't until it
made its way across to Latin America it
infected a naive population that didn't
have any immunity that's causing a lot
more problems and than we thought it
ever did so what we're beginning to see
is that babies are born with what we
call Micro carefully which is when
they're born with a small head and you
know some of these babies are crying for
23 hours a day and some of them are
having fits and so it's really quite
significant the mosquitos they are they
are fascinating but obviously there is a
dark side to this story why don't we
just eradicate them what's the point of
a mosquito you know mosquitoes are part
of the ecosystem so they're food for
bats and birds and the food for aquatic
organisms some mosquitoes pollen E
because they feed on nectar when they're
not feeding on us so if you were to
remove them from the system what would
happen the whole thing would just
completely well I guess we have no real
way of knowing exactly how important and
vital those parasites are to all of
those connections yeah exactly
it's funny I can feel them more now but
I think that's purely because they're
heavier they do look three times the
size so like the ultimate blood seeking
machine
[Music]
right well now these guys have had their
lunch it's time to take my arm out of
the mosquito so just this really slowly
and what especially not as we go yeah
okay ah my arm is so itchy and I'm
beginning to see the reaction I'm
beginning to see little welts pop up
James I really really want to which my
arm
would you advise against that I've got a
feeling you're going to say yes yeah
it's the worst thing yeah I know that
that's what you want to do because
sometimes so unbearably edgy when you're
abroad and it's really hot and sweaty
and sometimes they can be quite a lot
bacteria around in the environment you
know you're just creating an open wound
which can become infected and you know
people of people have lost limbs because
of a mosquito bite because they've
scratched them and become infected and
you know they've had to have their sort
of leg chopped off or parts of their leg
chopped off so it's really serious and
so you shouldn't ever scratch your base
if you can help it it's so itchy my
whole arm feels a little bit tingly like
it's weak blood left never did I think I
would find myself voluntarily putting my
arm inside a box of mosquitoes but that
was fascinating so thank you I think to
James Logan I have a very itchy arm
though and if you want to see the video
when my blood was sucked by leeches then
click on the link don't forget subscribe
and we'll see you soon on earth
unplugged yesterday after it happened I
actually I'm going to admit I was a
little bit disappointed that my arm
didn't immediately react however today
my arm has well and truly inflamed
having 30-plus mozzie bites on your arm
is not pleasant